README.md, before:

# zsh-test-runner (ztr) ![GitHub release (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/olets/zsh-test-runner)

> Straight-forward tests and coverage reports for zsh

Features:

-   short and gentle learning curve
-   run one or more tests on the command line
-   run one or more tests saved in a test suite file
-   skip tests
-   optionally give tests descriptive names
-   optionally provide notes to tests, for example to list dependencies in the logged output
-   access cumulative failure, pass, and skip counts as shell variables
-   print coverage summaries with test count, failure count and rate, pass count and rate, and skip count

What it does not feature: its own custom semantic API. There's no "describe", "expect", etc. zsh-test-runner is not bats or ZUnit (or rspec, or cypress, or…). Tests rely on the shell's native determination of success.

## Installation

### Plugin (recommended)

You can install zsh-test-runner with a zsh plugin manager. This is the recommended installation because most modern plugin managers are optimized for shell load time performance.

Each has its own way of doing things. See your package manager's documentation or the [zsh plugin manager plugin installation procedures gist](https://gist.github.com/olets/06009589d7887617e061481e22cf5a4a). If you're new to zsh plugin management, at this writing zinit is a good choice for its popularity, frequent updates, and great performance.

After adding the plugin to the manager, restart zsh:

```shell
exec zsh
```

### Package

zsh-test-runner is available on Homebrew. Run

```
brew install olets/tap/zsh-test-runner
```

and follow the post-install instructions logged to the terminal.

### Manual

Clone this repo and add `source path/to/ztr.zsh` to your `.zshrc` (replace `path/to/` with the correct path). Then restart zsh:

```shell
exec zsh
```

## Commands

### `clear`

Clear counts.

```shell
% ztr test true
PASS true
% ztr clear
% ztr test false
FAIL false
% ztr summary
1 test total
1 (100%) failed
0 were skipped
0 passed
```

### `skip [--quiet | -q] <arg> [<name> [<notes>]]`

Skip `<arg>`.

```shell
% ztr skip my_test
SKIP my_test
```

See [`test`](#test) for details about `--quiet`, `<name>`, and `<notes>`.

### `summary`

Pretty-print summary of counts.

```shell
% ztr test true
PASS true
% ztr test false
FAIL false
% ztr summary
2 tests total
1 (50%) failed
0 were skipped
1 (50%) passed
```

### `test [--quiet | -q] <arg> [<name> [<notes>]]`

Test `<arg>`. Pretty-print result and notes unless "quiet".

```shell
% ztr test true
PASS true
% ztr test false
FAIL false
```

If `<arg>` will error when passed to `eval`, quote it.

```shell
% ztr test [[ 1 == 1 ]]
zsh: = not found # same error you get if you run `eval [[ 1 == 1 ]]`
% ztr test '[[ 1 == 1 ]]'
PASS [[ 1 == 1 ]]
```

`<arg>` can be a value, a function, a `[ ]` or `[[ ]]` test, anything that you can pass to `eval`.

```shell
% ztr test 'test -f myfile.txt'
% ztr test '[ -f myfile.txt ]'
% ztr test '[[ -f myfile.txt ]]'
% ztr test my_function
# etc
```

Choose your quote level to control what is logged.

```shell
% my_var=1
% ztr test "[[ $my_var == 1 ]]"
PASS [[ 1 == 1 ]]
% ztr test '[[ $my_var == 1 ]]'
PASS [[ $my_var == 1 ]]
```

A passing test has a passing exit code; a failing test has a failing exit code:

```shell
% ztr test true 'passing exit code'
PASS passing exit code
% echo $?
0
% ztr test false 'failing exit code'
FAIL failing exit code
% echo $?
1
```

Save a test suite and run it from a file:

1. Prepare your test suite. Make sure to include

    ```
    source $ZTR_PATH
    ```

    before any calls to `ztr`.

    For example you might end up with

    ```shell
    % cat suite.ztr
    source $ZTR_PATH
    my_test=false

    ztr test true 'my first test'
    ztr test my_test 'my second test'
    ztr test 'my_test && true' 'my third test' 'depends on my second test'
    ztr skip my_other_test 'my other test' '@TODO build the api for this!'

    echo
    ztr summary
    ```

1. Run your test suite

    ```shell
    % zsh suite.ztr # don't miss the `zsh` here
    PASS my first test
    FAIL my second test
    FAIL my third test
    	depends on my second test
    SKIP my other test
    	@TODO build the api for this!

    4 tests total
    2 (40%) failed
    1 was skipped
    1 (20%) passed
    ```

#### `(--quiet | -q)`

Optionally silence output.

```shell
% ztr test true
PASS true
% ztr test --quiet true
% ztr test true
PASS true
```

#### `<name>`

Optionally pass a name as a second parameter.

```shell
% ztr test '[[ 1 == 1 ]]' '<name> appears instead of <arg>'
PASS <name> appears instead of <arg>
```

#### `<notes>`

Optionally pass notes as a third parameter. For example, noting dependencies can help with troubleshooting. In the output notes are indented.

```shell
% cat my_tests.ztr
# --- snip ---
ztr test my_test_10
# --- snip ---
ztr test my_test_20 my_test_20 'Dependencies: my_test_10'
# --- snip ---
ztr test my_test_30 my_test_30 'Dependencies: my_test_10'
# --- snip ---

% ./my_tests.ztr
# --- snip ---
FAIL my_test_10
# --- snip ---
FAIL my_test_20
    'Dependencies: my_test_10'
# --- snip ---
FAIL my_test_30
    'Dependencies: my_test_10'
# Ok let's see if fixing my_test_10 fixes my_test_20 and my_test_30
```

### `( --help | -h | help)`

Show the manpage.

### `( --version | -v | version )`

Print the command name and current version.

## Variables

### Counts

| Variable       | Type    | Default | Use                                         |
| -------------- | ------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| ZTR_COUNT_FAIL | integer | 0       | The number of tests which have failed       |
| ZTR_COUNT_PASS | integer | 0       | The number of tests which have passed       |
| ZTR_COUNT_SKIP | integer | 0       | The number of tests which have been skipped |

Note that "tests" in the above are not necessarily unique:

```shell
% ztr test true --quiet
% echo $ZTR_COUNT_PASS
1
% ztr test true --quiet
% echo $ZTR_COUNT_PASS
2
```

Use `ztr clear` to zero out count variables:

```shell
% ztr test true --quiet
% ztr clear
% echo $ZTR_COUNT_PASS
0
```

`ZTR_COUNT_FAIL` is a convenient way to check for 100% pass rate:

```
% (( ZTR_COUNT_FAIL )) || echo all tests pass
```

### Configuration

| Variable  | Type    | Default | Use                                                   |
| --------- | ------- | ------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| ZTR_DEBUG | integer | 0       | If non-zero, print debugging messages                 |
| ZTR_QUIET | integer | 0       | If non-zero, use quiet mode without passing `--quiet` |

### Other

| Variable | Type   | Use                                                       |
| -------- | ------ | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| ZTR_PATH | string | `source $ZTR_PATH` in scripts that include `ztr` commands |

## Changelog

See the [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md) file.

## Roadmap

See the [ROADMAP](ROADMAP.md) file.

## Contributing

Thanks for your interest. Contributions are welcome!

> Please note that this project is released with a [Contributor Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By participating in this project you agree to abide by its terms.

Check the [Issues](https://github.com/olets/zsh-test-runner/issues) to see if your topic has been discussed before or if it is being worked on. You may also want to check the roadmap (see above).

Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) before opening a pull request.

To test `ztr` run `./tests/ztr.ztr`

## License

<p xmlns:dct="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" xmlns:cc="http://creativecommons.org/ns#" class="license-text"><a rel="cc:attributionURL" property="dct:title" href="https://www.github.com/olets/zsh-test-runner">zsh-test-runner</a> by <a rel="cc:attributionURL dct:creator" property="cc:attributionName" href="https://www.github.com/olets">Henry Bley-Vroman</a> is licensed under <a rel="license" href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0">CC BY-NC-SA 4.0</a> with a human rights condition from <a href="https://firstdonoharm.dev/version/2/1/license.html">Hippocratic License 2.1</a>. Persons interested in using or adapting this work for commercial purposes should contact the author.</p>

<img style="height:22px!important;margin-left:3px;vertical-align:text-bottom;" src="https://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/icons/cc.svg?ref=chooser-v1" /><img style="height:22px!important;margin-left:3px;vertical-align:text-bottom;" src="https://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/icons/by.svg?ref=chooser-v1" /><img style="height:22px!important;margin-left:3px;vertical-align:text-bottom;" src="https://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/icons/nc.svg?ref=chooser-v1" /><img style="height:22px!important;margin-left:3px;vertical-align:text-bottom;" src="https://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/icons/sa.svg?ref=chooser-v1" />

For the full text of the license, see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file.

Commit message:

feat(skip, summary, test): support NO_COLOR to opt of colored output

README.md, after:

# zsh-test-runner (ztr) ![GitHub release (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/olets/zsh-test-runner)

> Straight-forward tests and coverage reports for zsh

Features:

-   short and gentle learning curve
-   run one or more tests on the command line
-   run one or more tests saved in a test suite file
-   skip tests
-   optionally give tests descriptive names
-   optionally provide notes to tests, for example to list dependencies in the logged output
-   access cumulative failure, pass, and skip counts as shell variables
-   print coverage summaries with test count, failure count and rate, pass count and rate, and skip count

What it does not feature: its own custom semantic API. There's no "describe", "expect", etc. zsh-test-runner is not bats or ZUnit (or rspec, or cypress, or…). Tests rely on the shell's native determination of success.

## Installation

### Plugin (recommended)

You can install zsh-test-runner with a zsh plugin manager. This is the recommended installation because most modern plugin managers are optimized for shell load time performance.

Each has its own way of doing things. See your package manager's documentation or the [zsh plugin manager plugin installation procedures gist](https://gist.github.com/olets/06009589d7887617e061481e22cf5a4a). If you're new to zsh plugin management, at this writing zinit is a good choice for its popularity, frequent updates, and great performance.

After adding the plugin to the manager, restart zsh:

```shell
exec zsh
```

### Package

zsh-test-runner is available on Homebrew. Run

```
brew install olets/tap/zsh-test-runner
```

and follow the post-install instructions logged to the terminal.

### Manual

Clone this repo and add `source path/to/ztr.zsh` to your `.zshrc` (replace `path/to/` with the correct path). Then restart zsh:

```shell
exec zsh
```

## Commands

### `clear`

Clear counts.

```shell
% ztr test true
PASS true
% ztr clear
% ztr test false
FAIL false
% ztr summary
1 test total
1 (100%) failed
0 were skipped
0 passed
```

### `skip [--quiet | -q] <arg> [<name> [<notes>]]`

Skip `<arg>`.

```shell
% ztr skip my_test
SKIP my_test
```

See [`test`](#test) for details about `--quiet`, `<name>`, and `<notes>`.

### `summary`

Pretty-print summary of counts.

```shell
% ztr test true
PASS true
% ztr test false
FAIL false
% ztr summary
2 tests total
1 (50%) failed
0 were skipped
1 (50%) passed
```

### `test [--quiet | -q] <arg> [<name> [<notes>]]`

Test `<arg>`. Pretty-print result and notes unless "quiet".

```shell
% ztr test true
PASS true
% ztr test false
FAIL false
```

If `<arg>` will error when passed to `eval`, quote it.

```shell
% ztr test [[ 1 == 1 ]]
zsh: = not found # same error you get if you run `eval [[ 1 == 1 ]]`
% ztr test '[[ 1 == 1 ]]'
PASS [[ 1 == 1 ]]
```

`<arg>` can be a value, a function, a `[ ]` or `[[ ]]` test, anything that you can pass to `eval`.

```shell
% ztr test 'test -f myfile.txt'
% ztr test '[ -f myfile.txt ]'
% ztr test '[[ -f myfile.txt ]]'
% ztr test my_function
# etc
```

Choose your quote level to control what is logged.

```shell
% my_var=1
% ztr test "[[ $my_var == 1 ]]"
PASS [[ 1 == 1 ]]
% ztr test '[[ $my_var == 1 ]]'
PASS [[ $my_var == 1 ]]
```

A passing test has a passing exit code; a failing test has a failing exit code:

```shell
% ztr test true 'passing exit code'
PASS passing exit code
% echo $?
0
% ztr test false 'failing exit code'
FAIL failing exit code
% echo $?
1
```

Save a test suite and run it from a file:

1. Prepare your test suite. Make sure to include

    ```
    source $ZTR_PATH
    ```

    before any calls to `ztr`.

    For example you might end up with

    ```shell
    % cat suite.ztr
    source $ZTR_PATH
    my_test=false

    ztr test true 'my first test'
    ztr test my_test 'my second test'
    ztr test 'my_test && true' 'my third test' 'depends on my second test'
    ztr skip my_other_test 'my other test' '@TODO build the api for this!'

    echo
    ztr summary
    ```

1. Run your test suite

    ```shell
    % zsh suite.ztr # don't miss the `zsh` here
    PASS my first test
    FAIL my second test
    FAIL my third test
    	depends on my second test
    SKIP my other test
    	@TODO build the api for this!

    4 tests total
    2 (40%) failed
    1 was skipped
    1 (20%) passed
    ```

#### `(--quiet | -q)`

Optionally silence output.

```shell
% ztr test true
PASS true
% ztr test --quiet true
% ztr test true
PASS true
```

#### `<name>`

Optionally pass a name as a second parameter.

```shell
% ztr test '[[ 1 == 1 ]]' '<name> appears instead of <arg>'
PASS <name> appears instead of <arg>
```

#### `<notes>`

Optionally pass notes as a third parameter. For example, noting dependencies can help with troubleshooting. In the output notes are indented.

```shell
% cat my_tests.ztr
# --- snip ---
ztr test my_test_10
# --- snip ---
ztr test my_test_20 my_test_20 'Dependencies: my_test_10'
# --- snip ---
ztr test my_test_30 my_test_30 'Dependencies: my_test_10'
# --- snip ---

% ./my_tests.ztr
# --- snip ---
FAIL my_test_10
# --- snip ---
FAIL my_test_20
    'Dependencies: my_test_10'
# --- snip ---
FAIL my_test_30
    'Dependencies: my_test_10'
# Ok let's see if fixing my_test_10 fixes my_test_20 and my_test_30
```

### `( --help | -h | help)`

Show the manpage.

### `( --version | -v | version )`

Print the command name and current version.

## Variables

### Counts

| Variable       | Type    | Default | Use                                         |
| -------------- | ------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| ZTR_COUNT_FAIL | integer | 0       | The number of tests which have failed       |
| ZTR_COUNT_PASS | integer | 0       | The number of tests which have passed       |
| ZTR_COUNT_SKIP | integer | 0       | The number of tests which have been skipped |

Note that "tests" in the above are not necessarily unique:

```shell
% ztr test true --quiet
% echo $ZTR_COUNT_PASS
1
% ztr test true --quiet
% echo $ZTR_COUNT_PASS
2
```

Use `ztr clear` to zero out count variables:

```shell
% ztr test true --quiet
% ztr clear
% echo $ZTR_COUNT_PASS
0
```

`ZTR_COUNT_FAIL` is a convenient way to check for 100% pass rate:

```
% (( ZTR_COUNT_FAIL )) || echo all tests pass
```

### Configuration

| Variable  | Type    | Default | Use                                                   |
| --------- | ------- | ------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| NO_COLOR  | any     |         | To suppress color output, set to any value or simply declare (`NO_COLOR=`) in `.zshrc` before loading zsh-test-runner. See <https://no-color.org/> |
| ZTR_DEBUG | integer | 0       | If non-zero, print debugging messages                 |
| ZTR_QUIET | integer | 0       | If non-zero, use quiet mode without passing `--quiet` |

### Other

| Variable | Type   | Use                                                       |
| -------- | ------ | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| ZTR_PATH | string | `source $ZTR_PATH` in scripts that include `ztr` commands |

## Changelog

See the [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md) file.

## Roadmap

See the [ROADMAP](ROADMAP.md) file.

## Contributing

Thanks for your interest. Contributions are welcome!

> Please note that this project is released with a [Contributor Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By participating in this project you agree to abide by its terms.

Check the [Issues](https://github.com/olets/zsh-test-runner/issues) to see if your topic has been discussed before or if it is being worked on. You may also want to check the roadmap (see above).

Please read [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) before opening a pull request.

To test `ztr` run `./tests/ztr.ztr`

## License

<p xmlns:dct="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" xmlns:cc="http://creativecommons.org/ns#" class="license-text"><a rel="cc:attributionURL" property="dct:title" href="https://www.github.com/olets/zsh-test-runner">zsh-test-runner</a> by <a rel="cc:attributionURL dct:creator" property="cc:attributionName" href="https://www.github.com/olets">Henry Bley-Vroman</a> is licensed under <a rel="license" href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0">CC BY-NC-SA 4.0</a> with a human rights condition from <a href="https://firstdonoharm.dev/version/2/1/license.html">Hippocratic License 2.1</a>. Persons interested in using or adapting this work for commercial purposes should contact the author.</p>

<img style="height:22px!important;margin-left:3px;vertical-align:text-bottom;" src="https://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/icons/cc.svg?ref=chooser-v1" /><img style="height:22px!important;margin-left:3px;vertical-align:text-bottom;" src="https://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/icons/by.svg?ref=chooser-v1" /><img style="height:22px!important;margin-left:3px;vertical-align:text-bottom;" src="https://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/icons/nc.svg?ref=chooser-v1" /><img style="height:22px!important;margin-left:3px;vertical-align:text-bottom;" src="https://mirrors.creativecommons.org/presskit/icons/sa.svg?ref=chooser-v1" />

For the full text of the license, see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file.
